TBB DOC : Dev Guide: Task Scheduler Bypass and How Does Task Scheduler Works (#521)
oneapi-src/oneTBB: doc/main/tbb_userguide/How_Does_Task_Scheduler_Works.rst

.. _How_Does_Task_Scheduler_Works.rst:

How Does Task Scheduler Works
=============================

The scheduler runs tasks in a way that tends to minimize both memory 
demands and cross-thread communication. The intuition is that a balance 
must be reached between depth-first and breadth-first execution. 
Assuming that the tree is finite, depth-first is best for sequential 

> execution for the following reasons:

Reviewer: It seems tree decomposition oriented. While TBB scheduler and tasking approach was (almost) tree structure oriented, the oneTBB scheduler is completely unaware of task dependencies and we need to think how to explain it better. Maybe we can first say about organization of queues and so on but then explain how it is mapped on tree decomposition that is widely used in parallel algorithms but not in flow graph.

Author: changed

- Strike when the cache is hot
  The deepest tasks are the most recently created tasks, and therefore are hottest in cache. 
  Also, if they can complete, then tasks depending on it can continue executing, and though not the hottest in cache, 
  it is still warmer than the older tasks above it.
 
- Minimize space
  Executing the shallowest task leads to breadth-first unfolding of the tree. This creates an exponential
  number of nodes that coexist simultaneously. In contrast, depth-first execution creates the same number 
  of nodes, but only a linear number have to exist at the same time, because it stacks the other ready 
  tasks.
  
Each thread has its own deque[8] of tasks that are ready to run. When a 
thread spawns a task, it pushes it onto the bottom of its deque.

When a thread participates in tasks evaluation, it continually executes 

> a task obtained by the first rule below that applies:

Author: Yes. This was intended to be read as:  
1. there are a number of rules how to get next task to execute. 
2. They are applied one by one. First one that produces the task is used to pick the next task to execute

> Each thread has its own deque[8] of tasks that are ready to run. When a 

Author: `[8]` means that reference was in the original documentation  of "classic" TBB. 

 [current documentation does not have this reference as well](https://oneapi-src.github.io/oneTBB/search.html?q=deque)

So I have just put a note to not forget to add it.

.. _How_Does_Task_Scheduler_Works.rst:

> How Does Task Scheduler Works

Author: I believe it does deserve a separate topic on it's own, as it helps to understand internal TBB mechanics, which some users do have a desire to understand.

> How Does Task Scheduler Works

Reviewer 2: okay, I'm cool with it!

=============================

While the task scheduler is not bound to any particular type of the  parallelism, 
it was designed to works efficiently for fork-join parallelism with lots of forks 

> (this type of parallelism is typical to parallel algorithms like parallel_for).

Author: Need to convert plain text `parallel_for` into reference

Let's consider the mapping of fork-join parallelism on the task scheduler in more detail. 

The scheduler runs tasks in a way that tries to achieve several targets simultaneously: 

>  - utilize as more threads as possible, to acieve actual parallelism

Author: ```suggestion
 - utilize as more threads as possible, to achieve actual parallelism
```

>  - utilize as more threads as possible, to acieve actual parallelism

Author: I did not like term `utilize` but neither do `use`. Intention was to emphasize that scheduler provides work for threads to enable actual parallelism. 

Let me think hoe to periphrases it .

 - preserve data locality, to make single thread execution more efficient  
 - minimize both memory demands and cross-thread communication, to reduce overhead 

> To achieve this a balance between depth-first and breadth-first execution strategies 

Author: `this` here should be read as "those goals described aboce"

must be reached. Assuming that the task graph is finite, depth-first is better for 
a sequential execution because:

- **Strike when the cache is hot**. The deepest tasks are the most recently created tasks and therefore are the hottest in the cache.

>   Also, if they can complete, then tasks depending on it can continue executing, and though not the hottest in cache, 

Author: ```suggestion
  Also, if they can be completed, then tasks which are dependent on it can be executed, and though not the hottest in cache, 
```

Author: @alexandraepan how about this ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Also, if they can be completed, tasks that depend on it can continue executing, and though not the hottest in a cache, 
```

>   they are still warmer than the older tasks above.

Author: `above` here pertains not to the text above, but for tasks that are deeper in the threads dequeue. 

Probably some diagrams would helpful here.

>   they are still warmer than the older tasks above.

Author: > 
```suggestion
  they are still warmer than the older tasks deeper in the dequeue.
```

>   they are still warmer than the older tasks above.

Author: may be this version is easier to read ad understand ?

 
- **Minimize space**. Execution of the shallowest task leads to the breadth-first unfolding of a graph. It creates an exponential
  number of nodes that co-exist simultaneously. In contrast, depth-first execution creates the same number 

>   of nodes, but only a linear number can exist at the same time, because it creates a stack of other ready 

Author: ```suggestion
  of nodes, but only a linear number can exists at the same time, since it creates a stack of other ready 
```

>   of nodes, but only a linear number can exist at the same time, because it creates a stack of other ready 

Author: `can` should be left in place, as it describe complexity of the algorithm.
